Hello! I'm Colin, and today I'll be presenting some research my coauthor Maria
Clow and I have been doing at UC Berkeley on the
topic of Bridget Connell Scott. This research is funded by the National
Science Foundation, as well as Rob and Kate Scott.

Our work is motivated by recent trends in the literature. Specifically, our
research subject is about to start a new chapter of her life, and we argue that this
study may play a role in facilitating this transition.

Now the status quo today, is for Colin to shy away from traditions and
hearfelt social events. This is clearly problematic.

So our goal is to fulfill Colin's role as older brother. The way we'll achieve
this goal is, of course, to publicly embarass my younger sister.

Now that I've outlined the problem statement, I'll spend the rest the talk
describing our experimental design, then I'll end with our measurement
results.

The primary instrument we'll use for conducting our research consists of
24 years of qualitative case studies. This includes such resources
as `having read diary entries about middle-school crushes on Jeff Potter`, and
`overhearing Bridget's sleep talking in loudly in her sleep.`

Our first measurement result is that Bridget is a champ. There are many many
anecdotes to support this claim, as I'm sure you'll hear throughout this
conference. Bridget grew up in a family where that was a fair amount of
pressure, mostly implicit from her feminist mother and rebelious older
brother, to be independent. I suspect that Bridget may have resented this
pressure at times, but one of the things I admire most about her is that she
has a chip on her shoulder about it -- she's very vehement about asserting
herself. So just one anectode, my friends and I, who may or may not be sitting
over there, often drank alchohol in high school up in my room. Bridget would
often join us to socialize, but she never once gave in to our attempts to try
the alchohol with us.

Our second measurment result is that, despite having very, very different
personalitities, Bridget and I actually get along spendidly well. Of course,
it didn't used to be that way. We used to fight frequently, and I suspect that
Bridget harbored a bit of resent toward her older Brother. But then this
magical thing happened -- my parents shipped us off to boarding school. After
that, Bridget still occasionally cornered me in the bathroom and tried to
pluck my nascent chest hairs, but I suppose that's just par for the coarse.

Before I end, I'll briefly discuss related work. The most closely related
research is, of course, the rest of your experiences with Jeff and Bridget.

To be completely serious though, 
